---
layout: post_teaching
title: Zoom Tips
category: biostat257spring2020
---

Welcome to Biostat 257: *Statistical Computing*. First of all and most importantly, I wish everyone stays safe and healthy during these challenging global times. Here is some essential information to get started with Biostat 257.  

## Class webpage

Please bookmark and visit the course webpage frequently for the most updated information: 
<http://ucla-biostat-257.com> or <https://ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io>.

## Lecture format

With the COVID-19 pandemic going on, there is some uncertainty in how 257 lectures are delivered. 

For the 1st week (Mar 31 and Apr 2), I will deliver lectures via Zoom <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/507925583> in scheduled class times (Tue/Thu 1p-2:50p).

Depending on the feedback from the 1st week, I may make some adjustments. For example, if there are too many technical issues for real time Zoom lectures, then I may pre-record lectures and only hold discussion sessions on Zoom. 

## Zoom tips

- If you have not used Zoom before, please download the most recent version of Zoom and learn some bascis such as mute audio/video, raise hand, chat, virtual background (so people don't see your actual background), and so on.

- Good internect connection is critical. For example WIFI at Starbucks will not work well. Have a plan where you are going to take classes on Zoom. On campus WIFI (`UCLA-WIFI`, `EDUROAM`, etc) have good bandwidth (with good enough signal). But as of today (Mar 26, 2020), the staty-at-home order by the State and LA County is still in effect and you are **not** supposed to come to campus unless for essential functions. Please pay close attention to the COVID-19 related university announcements at <http://ucla.in/coronavirus>. 

  Usual residential internet service seems sufficient. For example my home has ATT 50Mbps service. My Zoom sessions usually go smooth, even with >5 devices actively streaming at the same time (I have two kids at home). 

  If you WIFI signal is not ideal, you may consider connecting your computer to the WIFI router directly using an ethernet cable.  

- It's very helpful to wear headphone or mute yourself while others are speaking in Zoom. Of course, remember to unmute yourself before you speak.

- It's good etiquette to keep your video on, unless you have limited internet bandwidth. 

- Please use your real name in Zoom so others know who they are talking to.

- In most lectures, I will go over the Jupyter Notebooks. It can be hard to follow the Zoom and at the same time run your own Jupyter Notebooks on the same screen. If you have separate devices, for example, an iPad, then you can use the iPad for Zoom and run Jupyter Notebooks on your laptop or PC. 
