---
layout: post_teaching
title: First day of class
category: biostat257spring2020
---

## Today

* Course introduction, logistics.

* Computer languages.

* Introduction to Julia programming.

## Course material

All lecture notes are Jupyter Notebooks. It is a good idea to learn by running through the code examples. You can do this in several ways. 

### Run in Binder

Easiest way to run the Jupyter Notebooks is Binder, a free service that allows us to run Jupyter Notebooks in cloud. Simply follow the Binder link at <https://ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io/schedule.html>. 

If you want the JupyterLab interface, replace the `tree` by `lab` in the URL.  

### Run locally on your own computer

1. Download and install Julia v1.4.0 from <https://julialang.org/downloads/>. On Mac, I usually use Bash command   
```bash  
sudo ln -s /Applications/Julia-1.4.app/Contents/Resources/julia/bin/julia /usr/local/bin/julia
```
to create a symbolic link so `julia` command is available anywere in the system. 

2. Git clone the course material.   
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ucla-biostat-257-2020spring/ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io.git
```

3. Enter the folder `ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io.git` on Terminal. 

4. Open Julia within that folder, type `]` to enter the package mode, then type  
```julia  
activate .
resolve
```
to install necessary packages. 

5. In Julia REPL, type  
```julia  
using IJulia
jupyterlab(dir=pwd())
```
to open the JupyterLab in browser.

6. Course material is updated frequently. Remember to `git pull` to obtain the most recent material. 

**Tip for Windows user**: Our TA Brendon is a Windows user. Feel free to consult him to configure your windows machine for open source data science tools.

### JupyterHub at UCLA

Ben Winjum at IDRE sets up an JupyterHub server for this class. Follow below steps to access the server.  

1. Point your browser to <http://ps6.idre.ucla.edu/>. Log in using UCLA for the ID provider.  

2. After log in, you should be able to see the folder `ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io` in your home directory. By default, you will see the Jupyter Notebook interface. To change to the JupyterLab interface, change `tree` to `lab` in URL.  Open an terminal in JupyterLab, cd to the `~/ucla-biostat-257-2020spring.github.io` folder, and type `git pull` to obtain the most updated course material. 

3. Run the Jupyter Notebooks. 

